# CitationTrackingSystem
COSC3506 Software Engineering semester project
Project Descriptions
Project 1: Traffic Citation and Reporting System
Some governmental agency at the provincial level has the responsibility for assembling statewide information about traffic citations and disseminating it upon request by an appropriate agency such as a sheriff's office or the highway patrol. This same agency also maintains information about vehicles licensed and registered within the province. When an officer makes a traffic stop, s/he wants to be able to ask a dispatcher to query the central agency to determine the status of a vehicle (for instance, registered? stolen? wanted for some reason?), the status of the driver (license suspended? revoked? outstanding warrants?), and the driving record of a particular driver.
A governmental agency at some local level is involved in peace-keeping efforts which include jurisdiction over traffic codes. Therefore, officers of this agency can issue citations for parking violations (issued to a particular vehicle), moving vehicle code violations (issued to a particular driver), moving vehicle code warnings (issued to a particular driver), fix-it tickets (issued to a vehicle), etc. This agency needs to be able to report the number and category of citations issued by a particular officer in a particular time period, the names of individuals for whom arrest warrants are in effect because they have not paid their citation fine or been found innocent of the violation, the license numbers of vehicles with outstanding (unpaid) parking or fix-it tickets, and similar related information. This agency also reports moving vehicle citations to the state agency, and also reports warrants for particular vehicles (for instance, for unpaid parking fines, for being reported stolen, for being reported involved in the commission of some crime, etc.) Sometimes, in addition to paying a fine for a moving vehicle violation, an offender can pay to attend traffic school, which has the effect of preventing the reporting of the citation to the central agency. Traffic school requires that an offender attend eight hours, which can be scheduled for an eight-hour day, or four two-hour periods in the evening, or any other way the agency chooses to schedule the sessions. If an individual chooses to attend traffic school, s/he must register for a particular session and attend the entirety of that session, however it is scheduled, in order for his/her citation to be non-reported.
